Okay, so now things get interesting.
What we wanna do is make
an XHR request, or a fetch,
to go and get some data from the third-party API
and inject it into our web page.
Now, we can do that on the client side
and if you're familiar enough with React
you might do it on a componented mount,
go into your fetch, data's loaded, and update.
But Next offers us
a method called getInitialProps.
Now, getInitialProps is called,
both on the server side and on the client side,
to prepare the properties to go into the component itself,
and what this means is,
inside of this function we can make our XHR request
to make our API call
to pre-populate the data that our component needs
to be able to render.
So, there's two different ways of doing this.
At the moment, what we wanna do is
I'm gonna add
a list of scheduled items to this page,
and this is a pure component moment,
so unlike our Error component,
which is extends the React component class,
this is pure component.
So to be able to do getInitialProps on a pure component,
first of all, we need a name for it.
So, we're gonna do const Index equals,
and then I'm gonna export the Index page.
We have a variable called Index,
and then we're gonna do getInitialProps equals,
and then we have a function, okay?
And this function is gonna do our request.
So to do the request, I'm gonna use fetch.
Now, if I do fetch the URL, so we've got
I've set up a local server, a JSON server.
Here's the full schedule down here,
and just gonna iterate over this complete list.
So I'm gonna do a request to this URL, okay?
And dot then res
and then we do res dot json,
and then then, and then we're gonna do something.
Not too sure what, but we're gonna console it log out.
Console log out in the first instance, okay?
Now, this isn't gonna work.
I like to start code that doesn't work.
If we look at what's going on.
Ooh, I seem to have JavaScript disabled.
There we go, right.
So here's the first problem: fetch is not defined, right?
Fetch is defined.
It's in the browser.
The problem is, actually it broke on the server side,
because when we request this page,
it's running on the server first,
and the server knows nothing about the fetch function.
Now, if we go over to Contact,
and we navigate to the Home page,
this breaks.
Okay, so this breaks for different reasons.
This is because we've not returned a value
from getInitialProps.
If I do return empty object, this should refresh.
It's doing a server call.
Let's just do that on the client.
You see, it loads,
and that's because the page is rendering in the client side,
but when we hit refresh, it entirely breaks,
because there is no fetch function.
So we're gonna solve this
by adding fetch as a dependency to our project.
Now, there's a bunch of different fetch modules.
From what I understand, one of the lightest ones is
well, I'm gonna use isomorphic-unfetch,
but there are a few different projects,
but the one I'm gonna use is isomorphic-unfetch,
so npm instal
isomorphic-unfetch, there we go,
and what isomorphic-unfetch will do
is introduce the fetch object,
but if fetch is already there in the client side,
then it won't do anything.
It'll just give the client-side library back,
and if it's not there, it'll polyfill it,
and on the server side it will make it work, basically.
So now when we run this code, okay, hit refresh,
it works, but nothing's happening, right?
Nothing's changed, because we need to get this content
back out into the client.
So let's have a look at actually what's happening.
So there's no console log here,
so let's just do a local navigation.
All right, so console dot log is showing us
that we have our schedule, which is good,
and on the server side, if I hit refresh,
we can see it's logging out in the server side as well,
which means that we're getting the data.
This is a good thing, but we need to get this JSON out
to be the response to the getInitialProps,
and getInitialProps actually needs to be
a async function.
Okay, so then we can do
we can do const res equals await, okay?
And then we're gonna do
const json equals await res dot json,
and then we're gonna return
let's call schedule.
Let's just pass in the JSON.
In fact, let's just rename that variable,
just so it looks nice, okay?
So
Oh, it doesn't like that.
The props.
What have I done wrong here?
I'm gonna leave that where it is, I think.
That works.
Okay.
Now, we're not logging anything out.
Here is actually when I'll turn to react-devtools,
so if you haven't installed it before, react-devtools.
I'm using it for Chrome.
Believe Firefox has parity on this tooling,
and I've got it over here, React.
So I would inspect
yeah, in fact you can see it right there,
the props, schedule, and there's the schedule.
So if I dig into the actual Index page,
you can see schedule has an array of eight items.
So I'm gonna go ahead and
get rid of this list.
I'm gonna call it
NextConf Schedule Browser,
and I'm gonna pull in schedule,
and I'm gonna do schedule dot map,
and then we're gonna map over
(growls) I don't know, let's call it s,
and i'm gonna map it over an element called Session, okay?
So I've created a new component in the components directory
called Session,
which just prints title and description, okay?
Nothing special right now.
So import Session
from components Session,
and I'm just gonna spread all of the
Session
onto the properties, and I'll give it a key as well.
Key equals s dot slug.
This should update, and there we go.
Now we have our schedule.
Now, I have no idea if this is in order or not.
None of this is clickable, but we'll get there,
and if I hit refresh, loads in the server side.
Navigate About.
Yeah, it's all nice and fast.
That pink contrast is really not good, is it?
But there we go.
That is how we use getInitialProps.
I'll find out what the ESLint issue is here,
and I'll fix it, and update my ESLint
config,
but I also wanna show you how to do this
if this were not a pure component.
So let's just rewrite this into...
Let's duplicate this.
Duplicate, and we're gonna rename it as class, okay?
So if we go to index-class,
should look exactly the same.
We're gonna do import from React,
and then we're gonna do Component, okay?
And here, we're gonna do class Index extends
oops
extends Component, and this is our render function.
Let's just get rid of this for a second.
That.
Oh, missing that one.
Okay, oh, that.
Right, so we can't just...
Well, I'm not gonna just pottle it down.
Really, what we need to do is just
static async getInitialProps,
static getInitialProps.
Oh my gosh, async.
There we go.
That works, and...
Think you can also do...
No, it's static async.
Is that right?
Yeah,
but I've got something up with my
parser.
Yes, so that's how you would do it
as a React component,
class component, whatever they're called.
So that is how we fetch data on the server side.
Now, what I wanna do from here
is actually upgrade this app and make it
so that you can click on each individual session,
and then we're gonna go ahead and make a fetch request
for that individual session,
and render that on the page using getInitialProps again,
and then, once we've done that,
we'll look at how to make some nice URLs
work with our next application.